[docs] Alternatives for Expo Notifications (#34705)
expo/expo: docs/pages/guides/using-push-notifications-services.mdx

---

> title: Using Push Notifications

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Using push notifications
```

We use sentence cases instead of title case unless there is a brand/feature/product name involved.

> description: Learn about different push notification services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn about push notification services compatible with Expo and React Native apps.
```

Let's update this to make it more meaningful. Also, helps with SEO when we include keywords like React Native and/or Expo.

Reviewer 2: Not sure of a perfect wording that does this, but do want to avoid the implication that these are the only options compatible with Expo apps. These just happen to be the ones that have purpose-built integrations (like config plugins).

---

import { BoxLink } from '~/ui/components/BoxLink';

Expo apps can work with any notification service or capabilities offered by the operating system. The following services provide purpose-built Expo integrations for implementing push notifications in your app:

> > The [`expo-notifications`](/versions/latest/sdk/notifications/) library is designed and tested to work with Expo's push notification service. Some advanced features may not be compatible with third-party providers, as they often have their own native and React Native SDKs optimized for their services.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> The [`expo-notifications`](/versions/latest/sdk/notifications/) library is designed and tested to work with Expo's push notification service and notifications sent directly from FCM and APNS. Some advanced features may not be compatible with third-party providers, as they often have their own native and React Native SDKs optimized for their services.
```

## Expo push notifications

[Expo Notifications](/versions/latest/sdk/notifications/) provides a unified API for handling push notifications across Android and iOS. It integrates seamlessly with your Expo account and is free to use.

### Key capabilities

- Fully compatible with the [`expo-notifications`](/versions/latest/sdk/notifications/) library
- Includes an Expo Dashboard to track notifications and user engagement
- Supports testing notifications with the [Expo Notifications Tool](https://expo.dev/notifications)

### Considerations and limitations

> - Notification extensions are not built-in, but you can set them up manually following Apple's guidelines.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- iOS notification extensions for adding additional content to notifications, such as images, are not formally included or supported, but you can add them with custom native code and configuration.
```

> - Limited to 600 notifications per second per project, which works for most apps but may not suit high-volume scenarios

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Volumes are limited to 600 notifications per second per project.
```

For implementation details, see the following guides:

<BoxLink
  title="Expo push notifications overview"
  description="Learn more about Expo push notifications."

>   href="/push-notifications/overview"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  href="/push-notifications/overview"
  Icon={NotificationBoxIcon}
```

Let's import the icon from `import { NotificationBoxIcon } from '@expo/styleguide-icons/outline/NotificationBoxIcon';` since this what we use in Expo dashboard.

/>

<BoxLink
  title="Expo Notifications server-side SDK options"
  description="Learn more about sending push notifications using a server."

>   href="/push-notifications/sending-notifications/#send-push-notifications-using-a-servers"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  href="/push-notifications/sending-notifications/#send-push-notifications-using-a-servers"
  Icon={NotificationBoxIcon}
```

Same as previous.

/>

> ---

Reviewer: These horizontal rule lines add unnecessary space between two sections. We don't need it since the typography the H2 is enough to convince the separation of two sections. Let's remove them from this doc.

## OneSignal

> [OneSignal](https://onesignal.com/) is a customer engagement platform that provides push notifications, in-app messaging, SMS, and email services for web and mobile apps. It includes an [Expo SDK](https://github.com/OneSignal/onesignal-expo-plugin) for easy integration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[OneSignal](https://onesignal.com/) is a customer engagement platform that provides push notifications, in-app messaging, SMS, and email services for web and mobile apps. OneSignal supports rich media in notifications and engagement analytics. It includes an [Expo config plugin](https://github.com/OneSignal/onesignal-expo-plugin) for direct integration into your Expo project.
```
Trying to avoid "easy", not sure if I hit the mark

Those other features are key distinctions of most services vis a vis Expo.

<BoxLink
  title="OneSignal Expo SDK Setup"
  description="Follow this guide for a step-by-step setup on how to integrate OneSignal in your Expo project."

>   href="https://documentation.onesignal.com/docs/react-native-expo-sdk-setup"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  href="https://documentation.onesignal.com/docs/react-native-expo-sdk-setup"
  Icon={BookOpen02Icon}
```

Let's use the generic icon (from `import { BookOpen02Icon } from '@expo/styleguide-icons/outline/BookOpen02Icon';`) for the rest of the external links.

/>

---

## Braze

> [Braze](https://www.braze.com/) is a customer engagement platform that delivers personalized, cross-channel messaging through push notifications, in-app messaging, email, SMS, and web. It provides a [React Native SDK](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-react-native-sdk) and an [Expo plugin](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-expo-plugin/tree/main). Check out the [Expo example app](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-expo-plugin/tree/main/example) for more details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Braze](https://www.braze.com/) is a customer engagement platform that delivers personalized, cross-channel messaging through push notifications, in-app messaging, email, SMS, and web. Braze supports rich notification content, push notification campaigns, and support for resending notifications after failed deliveries on Android. It provides a [React Native SDK](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-react-native-sdk) and a [config plugin](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-expo-plugin/tree/main). Check out the [Expo example app](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-expo-plugin/tree/main/example) for more details.
```

<BoxLink
  title="Braze Expo Setup"
  description="Follow this guide for a step-by-step setup on how to integrate Braze in your Expo project."
  href="https://www.braze.com/docs/developer_guide/platforms/react_native/sdk_integration"
/>

---

## Customer.io

[Customer.io](http://Customer.io) provides two main services:

- **Journeys**, for setting up campaigns and sending messages, emails, and push notifications
- **Data Pipelines**, for capturing and forwarding data from your Expo app, website, or other sources to the right destinations in your stack

> It offers an [Expo plugin](https://github.com/customerio/customerio-expo-plugin) for seamless integration.

Reviewer 2: It'd be good to keep the same format as the others. Some distinctive Customer.io features we could note:
- Device-side metrics
- Invoke deep links in your app when tapping on a notification
- Define in-app messaging in addition to push notifications
- Support and guides for using customer.io notifications alongside other providers

<BoxLink
  title="Customer.io Expo Quick Start Guide"
  description="Follow this guide for a step-by-step setup on how to integrate Customer.io in your Expo project."
  href="https://docs.customer.io/sdk/expo/quick-start-guide/"
/>

---

## Send notifications directly via FCM and APNs

> In some cases, you may need to handle notifications natively for full customization. While this adds complexity, you can still use [`expo-notifications`](/versions/latest/sdk/notifications/) to retrieve the native push token and configure notifications separately for each platform.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You may choose to send directly to platform push API's from your backend. In this case, you can still use [`expo-notifications`](/versions/latest/sdk/notifications/) to retrieve the native push token and configure notifications separately for each platform.
```

> Although the client-side code remains cross-platform with [`expo-notifications`](/versions/latest/sdk/notifications/), you need to implement server-side logic to interact with the [FCM](https://firebase.google.com/docs/cloud-messaging) and [APNs](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/usernotifications) APIs individually.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Although the client-side code remains cross-platform with [`expo-notifications`](/versions/latest/sdk/notifications/), you will need to implement server-side logic to interact with the [FCM](https://firebase.google.com/docs/cloud-messaging) and [APNs](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/usernotifications) APIs individually.
```

---

> ## React Native Firebase Messaging

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## React Native Firebase messaging
```

<BoxLink
  title="OneSignal Expo SDK Setup"
  description="Follow this guide for a step-by-step setup on how to integrate OneSignal in your Expo project."
  href="https://documentation.onesignal.com/docs/react-native-expo-sdk-setup"
  Icon={BookOpen02Icon}
/>

## Braze

[Braze](https://www.braze.com/) is a customer engagement platform that delivers personalized, cross-channel messaging through push notifications, in-app messaging, email, SMS, and web. Braze supports rich notification content, push notification campaigns, and support for resending notifications after failed deliveries on Android. It provides a [React Native SDK](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-react-native-sdk) and a [config plugin](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-expo-plugin/tree/main). Check out the [Expo example app](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-expo-plugin/tree/main/example) for more details.

<BoxLink
  title="Braze Expo Setup"
  description="Follow this guide for a step-by-step setup on how to integrate Braze in your Expo project."
  href="https://www.braze.com/docs/developer_guide/platforms/react_native/sdk_integration"
  Icon={BookOpen02Icon}
/>

## Customer.io

> [Customer.io](http://Customer.io) is a customer engagement platform that provides push notifications, in-app messaging, email, and SMS capabilities. Customer.io supports device-side metrics collection, deep linking from notifications into your app, and customizable in-app messaging. It provides documentation for using Customer.io notifications alongside other providers. Customer.io provides an [Expo plugin](https://github.com/customerio/customerio-expo-plugin) for direct integration with your Expo project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Customer.io](http://Customer.io) is a customer engagement platform that allows you to design powerful automated workflows utilizing push notifications, in-app messaging, email, SMS capabilities, and more. Its visual workflow builder allows you to automate complex, data-driven campaigns across multiple channels. Customer.io supports device-side metrics collection that can be used to customize push notifications tailored to user behaviors and preferences. Customer.io provides an [Expo plugin](https://github.com/customerio/customerio-expo-plugin) for direct integration with your Expo project and documentation for using Customer.io push notifications alongside other providers.
```
